Q.   What is blue Ocean?
Ans.  Blue Ocean is a Jenkins plugin that enhances the user experience based on a personalised modern design. It has been built from the ground up to 
       provide an interactive view of the Jenkins pipeline. It reduces the clutter and increases clarity for all users.
       
Q.   Diffrence between blue Ocean And jenkins interface ?    
Ans.  Blue Ocean is just a different UI for Jenkins that depends more on visualization and easiness of using Jenkins for beginners.
      Blue Ocean reduces clutter and increases clarity for every jobs.
      
Q.  Backup in jenkins?
ans.  Jenkins Thin Backup is a popular plugin for backing up Jenkins. It backs up all the data based on your schedule and it handles the backup retention as well.
      Step 1 − Click on Manage Jenkins and choose the 'Manage Plugins' option.
      Step 2 − In the available tab, search for 'Backup Plugin'. 
      Step 3 − Now when you go to Manage Jenkins, and scroll down you will see 'Backup Manager' as an option.
      Step 4 − Click on Setup.
      
 Q.  what is Workspace ?
 Ans. The workspace directory is where Jenkins builds your project: it contains the source code Jenkins checks out, plus any files generated by the build 
       itself. This workspace is reused for each successive build.
       
 Q. why used multibranch pipeline?
 Ans. The Multibranch Pipeline project type enables you to implement different Jenkinsfiles for different branches of the same project. 
       In a Multibranch Pipeline project, Jenkins automatically discovers, manages and executes Pipelines for branches which contain a 
       Jenkinsfile in source control.
       
 Q.  What is jenkinsfile?
 Ans. A Jenkinsfile is a text file that contains the definition of a Jenkins Pipeline and is checked into source control
        The stages directive and steps directive are also required for a valid Declarative Pipeline as they instruct Jenkins what to execute and 
        in which stage it should be executed.
        
 Q.    What is config.xml ?
 Ans.   The config. xml file contains information about Jenkins like version, Pipeline information, owner, etc. It also contains the workspace 
         Directory path, builds Directory path.
         
 Q.      what is unit file?
 Ans.    Each unit file is a simple text file describing a unit, what it does, what needs to run before or afterward, and other details. Unit files
         can be stored in a few different places on your system. systemd looks for system unit files in this order: /etc/systemd/system. 
         
 Q.      what is webhook ?
 Ans.     webhook is a mechanism to automatically trigger the build of a Jenkins project upon a commit pushed in a Git repository. In order for builds 
          to be triggered automatically by PUSH and PULL REQUEST events, a Jenkins Web Hook needs to be added to each GitHub repository.
          
 Q.       what is poll scm?
 Ans.     polls the scm for checking if any changes/ new commits were made and shall build the project if any new commits were pushed since the last 
          build, whereas the "build" shall build the project periodically irrespective to whether or not any changes were made.
          
 Q.       What is periodically?
 Ans.     Builds Periodically will trigger builds the job as per the schedule.
 
 Q        Diffrence between poll scm and build periodically? 
 Ans.     Poll SCM periodically polls the SCM to check whether changes were made and builds the project if new commits where pushed since the last build,
          whereas build periodically builds the project periodically even if nothing has changed



          
          
          
